---
title: "Fountain of Youth"
date: 2021-02-05T21:46:40+01:00
summary: |
  Alex and Mary were a globe-trotting power couple in their youth. 
  Now celebrating their 25th anniversary in Las Vegas, Mary is wondering what might lay ahead for them.
  
  This was is  an extension of the Chick-lit Flashfiction competition for January 2021
draft: false
cover:
  image: fountain-of-youth.jpeg
  alt: Rainbow fountain
---
The mist of water spraying from the fountain cast a rainbow like glow
across the air, through the golden hues of sunset. The air was warm,
thick and slightly claustrophobic, like a blanket that was tucked in
around you just a little bit too tightly. Still, the day was glorious.
The weather for the whole week had been. Las Vegas was a good choice for
an anniversary holiday, especially as they needed to slow down for
Alex's knees. They could spend a whole day at the pool, lost in a good
book with a steady stream of cocktails miraculously appearing at your
side. They may even meet another couple there, maybe even another
British couple, and they could have a laugh about all the weird American
idiosyncracies. Could head out for a bus tour along the miles and miles
of 'The Stretch', pointing at all the things they had seen in movies and
taking pictures for the kids to see. Or a show! Wasn't Britney Spears in
residency here? Weren't there a million magic shows they could see?

The world was their oyster.

But they weren't doing any of that. Instead, they were sitting there on
a bench, eating an ice-cream from some van that cost them a pretty
penny. It was something they could easily have done in Blyth, but here
they were, almost 18 hours of flying later, sitting on a bench watching
the world go by in absolute silence. You could take the girls out of
Blyth but-

A scream peeled through the thick air, wafting over to them. For Mary,
panic set in. Her hand flew to Alex's knee and she scanned the crowd,
trying to work out where the danger was coming from.

They were in America. What on earth were they thinking?! Coming to
bloody America of all places. Americans were bloody maniacs, wandering
around the guns and bloody well using them on each other all the time.
Savages, *utter *savages-

Then she saw them. Half soaked, sunkissed skin. Long, lean legs. Arms
held out in a waltz stance, like they were ballroom dancers who had
forgotten their costumes and only had some summer wear. The smiles on
their faces were radiant and their mirthful laughter was contagious.
Even though they were nothing like the dancers on *Strictly* and they
stood on each others toes and yelped every time they were caught by a
spray of water, they were captivating.

Mary huffed a small, nostalgic sigh as she watched the young couple
giggle, squeal and swirl through the jets of the walk-through water
fountain, trying to avoid the more vicious and vigourous spurts. They
looked at each other like there was no one else there in the world. It
was like something out of a Jack Vettriano painting, like the one they
got for one of their other anniversaries from the kids.

Mary gently squeezed Alex's knee once more and whistfully stated, "We
used to be like that, you know."

"Like what?" Alex harrumphed between licks of ice cream, like it was her
duty to ensure that not a single bead of ice-cream dared to breach the
walls of its cone. It was a fight she was almost losing.

"You didn't even - l-like *them! Look!* Look at them! Young-"

Alex continued her battle but glanced upwards towards the spectical
before them, making furtive glances at the ice-cream cone to mointor her
success at keeping the flood at bay. She hadn't even registered the
yelps and screams, nor the crowd that surrounded the fountain and the
dancing couple. It took her a moment to pick them up out of the crowd,
but when she did, she clucked in dissaproval, "You mean 'stupid'?"

"-spontaneous-"

"They'll die of hypothermia, if they don't get arrested first."

"-full of love -- hypothermia? Alex, it's 14 degrees! That's Summer in
Newcastle."

"Look at what they're wearing! If they don't have hypothermia by the end
of the night, I'll be surprised. That or sun stroke. You know, once the
sun's gone, they'll freeze to death. We might well be in a desert, but
it still gets cold in a desert, you know. I read an article a while ago
about snow in the desert. I can't remember where it was\... Anyway, it
said that it snowed there for the first time in a long time, but the
point is, it gets dead cold. I reckon it must've been the Sahara - or
was it the Serengeti? I always\..."

Mary turned back to face the couple, her shoulders sagging in defeat.
She heard this one before. After 25 years and two children, was there
anything that she hadn't heard? Alex read so many articles, but it felt
like Mary heard the same 10 over and over again. Every once in a while,
a new one would slip into the roation and old one would disappear. At
least until one of the kids called to see how they were doing and then
it was all about the life cycles of the African elephants all over
again.

How did they find themselves like this? Alex used to have a lust for
adventure, wanting to bring Mary and the kids around the world. Before
the kids were around, they spent two months travelling through the
coastal towns and islands that surrounded the Indian Ocean, letting Alex
satisfy that itch for discovery and Mary to dabble into new cuisines.

The rich foods and stories spiced their lives with colour and flavour,
something that Mary honed into her first cookbook. It was more of a
'hidden gem' than a best seller, something of an afficianado's book,
something that the professional chef's referred to. Word spread among
those in the know and suddenly, Mary and Alex's lives were filled with
invites to dinner parties and book launches all around the world. The
kids followed as well, of course.

She could hardly do that now here in Las Vegas. The best years were
behind them. They were already well into their retirement. Was there any
more excitement to be had, any more surprises tucked up Life's sleeves?

The young couple drifted off, the rest of their lives still ahead of
them.

"We still are, though."

Mary furrowed her brow, pulled out of her fond memories of the full life
they had lived together, still wondering when their youth had left them
exactly. "'Still are' what?"

Alex's worn, ice-cream sugared hand brushed across Mary's palm, linking
fingers with her wife's. The gentleness and care Alex took to carress
her thumb over Mary's was a welcome familiarity, "We're still full of
love."

A smile blossomed on Mary's face. That was a sight Alex never got tired
of.

"I suppose so."

A moment of quiet passed, the two lovers' hands linked as they watched
the fountain run through its sequence one more time before Alex
declared, "Alright! We've still to spend the rest of kids' inheritance.
I think The Venetian won't have you pegged as a card counter."

Mary pursed her lips, gently swatting Alex's lap at her little quip, "I
thought it was 22, not 21!"

"Oh, of course, of course. Might be best to keep you on the slots,
though."
