---
title: Friday Night Movie Club
date: 2021-02-05T08:47:11+01:00
summary: |
  Friday Nights were made for movies and curling up with a loved one.
  But what happens when that love isn't really there anymore?
  A short story about lost long-term love and what may be gained instead
draft: false
cover:
  image: friday-night-movie-club.jpeg
  alt: Friday night movie club ticket
---
7pm, Friday night. Couch, lights off, dishwasher churning away in the
kitchen, cleaning off the grease from our usual Chinese takeaway,
curtains drawn, your choice of movie on the screen. As always.

And you and me, of course.

We're sitting on the couch in our usual spaces; you on the left, your
legs spread wide as you take up one and half of the three seats, me on
the right, legs curled in neatly under my body, grasping a pillow on my
bent knees. We're both sitting here together, but we're apart. I pull my
foot away when your hand reaches out to brush against my wooly sock
covered toes. You didn't even glance at me when your hand retreated back
into the comfort of the crisp bowl. Cheese and onion. Your favourite.

The smell makes me feel sick.

The colours of the screen flit across your face, casting dark red
shadows across your skin. I honestly can't remember for the life of me
what it was we were watching again. Some macho action movie? A horror or
some thriller? I've not really been paying attention, to be honest. I
didn't even pay attention when you were telling me about it earlier, how
it was a movie that sounded alright and you fancied seeing it.

You always do whatever you fancy, don't you?

I look away from your face when I see your head turn towards me
slightly, knowing that you're being watched as your crunch through your
crisps. You furrow your brows while you gaze at me and then, after a
moment, you take a breath, as though you're just about to ask me what it
is wrong. But the question never comes. You shift in your seat, cough to
clear your throat and shake your head, eyes back on the screen.

I turn back to see you again, waiting for it to happen.

We've not always had a Friday Night movie. Back then -- God, it must've
been years ago now -- we'd go out and do something. You'd walk around to
my office and wait outside for the masses to be released at 5pm. Come
rain or shine, I'd know you'd be there, in that old brown leather coat,
the one that you got from your dad on your 17^th^ Birthday. You wore
that thing everywhere -- I think you even wore it to a BBQ we had down
the beach with a few mates from work. I think you still have it now, but
it's tucked away now. All of a sudden, you just didn't have it on one
day. When I asked, you just told me that you 'fancied a change' and it
wasn't spoken about again. You wore it less and less and then at some
point, I only ever saw it on your side of the wardrobe, hidden between
your wedding suit and your funeral suit.

Yeah, back in the days we used to do things. I remember the time you
arranged for us to go to some restaurant, some Turkish place. You were
adament we had to go there on a Friday night and it was better that we
went there for half eight-ish. I remember I was bloody starving. In
between me moaning about how hungry I was and glasses of wine in a pub
around the corner from the restaurant, I ate two whole packets of salt
and vinegar crisps -- and I even snaffed a few of your cheese and onion
ones. That's how hungry I was. I remember you gasping in mock shock and
pulling the packet closer to you, only to split the foil a little more
so it was easier for me to reach in and get some.

You were thoughtful like that, sometimes.

I remember we tumbled out of the pub and into the restaurant, tipsy and
giggly already. We'd already checked out the menu on my phone and over
the hours, the list of our order only got longer and longer. When the
waiter gave us the menus and turned on their heel to give us time, you
gently tapped on their elbow, explained that we already made up our
mind, asked if you could make sure there were no almonds in any of our
dishes and then rattled off our order. The woman quirked a brow as she
noted it all down, pausing at one point to ask if we were expecting more
people to join us and asked if we were sure if we wanted all of this
when we told her it was just me and you.

We sat there, me sipping on my wine and you drinking your beer, dipping
big tears of flat breads in thick, creamy babaganoush and munching
through koftes, chatting away when the lights dimmed and took on a red
hue and the quiet music suddenly became louder, filled with lutes and
shimmering tambourines. The grin on your face spread, as the rumbling on
some hand drums became louder and stopped as a scantilly clad belly
dancer stepped out from a beaded curtain somewhere. Hollers and hoots
filled the room and folk started clapping.

I turned to you incredulously, "Did you know about this?"

Your shoulders shrugged, but the smirk on your face said it all, "I
heard something like this happens-"

The claps and hooting got louder as the belly dancer made her way
throughout the room, getting people up from their seats and wrapping the
belt around their waist. She'd show them a few wiggles of her hips,
encouraging them to join in, before she wandered off to the next table,
ready to get her next victims on board.

"Oh shit. She's going round the room."

"I know! Ain't it great?!"

"She's doing the outer tables first. It's gonna be us soon."

"And you'll show them all how to do it right-"

"I'm not doing it, Ken."

"What?! Oh come on! I've seen those hips at work before. They can do all
sorts-"

I laughed in spite of myself, shaking my head, "You're such an
arsehole-"

"-and you can't bloody well leave me up there alone," He added, leaning
in closer to whisper, "Once I do my belly rolls, the auld lassies at the
table behind us might eat me alive."

It didn't take me much more convincing. Once the woman got us up and
tied the coin fringed belt around our hips, the alcohol took over. We
were swinging and swaying around the room for a good wee while until the
music was turned off so the belly dancer could start her own part of the
performance, now that we were all lubed up for the night ahead.

It was a brilliant night.

We'd been there a few times after, with friends in tow, hiding the big
event of the night away from them until the music started. It was a
great wee set up, us two in it together, thick as theives as we threw
off their attempts at trying to work out why we dragged them all the way
over to the other side of town for a 'fancy kebab'. It was gleeful to
see the surprise on their faces, to watch them shimmy around the room.
Our pals! Professors, solicitors, a funeral director - the most serious
folk in the world. We couldn't stop laughing when Jimmy pulled up his
crisp white and light blue pine-stripped shirt, opened up a few of the
bottom buttons and twisted the material into a crop top, all the better
to display his pasty white, hair flecked beer belly that he was
desperately trying to ripple. It was a moment we'd bring up again and
again on nights out, dinner parties and then actual parties for them and
their kids.

Then we found out the place closed down about a year ago. We'd stopped
heading out on Fridays that much before then, mind. You'd told me that
you tried to book a table one night a few months ago when you were
trying to make up with me after that big fight, only to find out it
didn't exist any more. You decided to order in instead. Worked out
cheaper anyway, didn't it?

We started the movies a while before that, though. It slowly crept in on
us, like when you stopped wearing your jacket. Every once in a while,
we'd decide it was nicer to cuddle up on the couch, order in some
noodles and watch a movie. Wasn't it more cosy? Us in our Pjs, a wee
bottle of something nice, our limbs entangled together as we laughed, or
cried or screamed at some movie together? It was better this way, we
agreed. Especially when you'd take off one of my fluffy socks, your eyes
still on the screen as you massaged my feet, almost like you were on
auto-pilot, doing this for me without any thought. You'd sit for the the
rest of the movie, your thumbs pushing into the balls of my toes,
murmuring some prediction about what would happen next.

I could swear back then that our little front room was heaven.

I guess I never really noticed when it suddenly became all that we did.
We didn't bother going out as much anymore, not when heaven was in the
front room. Invitations for dinners and parties were hardly rolling in
anyways, and when they were they always seemed to have kids attached to
them. We never really fancied it all that much -- who'd want to spend
their spare time washing off mucky, sticky finger prints from our
clothes and staring at pictures of kids with runny noses? Not us. Kill
us, first, please. Of course, we'd go to the obligatory first birthdays,
show our faces and leave a gift before disappearing an hour or so later.

Then we'd end up back here, watching a movie. At some point, we weren't
even watching the movie together any more, both of us head down in our
phones, me flicking through Instagram and facebook and you -- well\...
whatever it was you were telling me you were doing.

I wonder if she was the first one?

Probably not, though. I reckon you'd have gotten bored often enough to
work your way through a few of them. I did think you were being off with
me for a while, being quite angry and snippy for some time. You being
jovial just\...stopped for a while. A long while. And then, all of a
sudden, it just returned. Hugs and kisses and little treats brought in
on your way home from work. Is that when it started? Should I have taken
that as a sign of your guilty concious?

Your cough burst through my thoughts as I tried to work out how many
more you might've had, more than 'Mike Office'. That's what her name was
under on your phone. It didn't seem like 'Mike Office' would have had
such a round pair of tits anyway, or 'want to feel your big aubergine in
me again'. I don't think she wanted any babaganoush. I could feel you
tense in your seat beside me as you tested your throat, trying to
swallow, trying to remain calm.

No, I don't think she wouldn've been the first. Not when I followed the
money after that, checking your account to see where you might've ended
up. A few restaurants, a hotel here and there -- all tied up to business
trips, mind. And then a refund from OKCupid.

I suppose you always where thrifty. Wanted to save that money so you had
more to shag wee Molly, didn't you?

When your panick finally set in, your turned to face me, wheezing,
"M-ma- my epi-"

"Shh. I'm trying to listen to the movie-"

The bowl slid from your knees as you gasped, your hands clutching at
your reddening throat, as though you were trying to rip it open, trying
to claw some way to let the air back in.

My eyes turned from the screen to watch you spasm and gasp, to watch you
watch me as your realised what was going on. To watch you as you took
your last, wheezy, raspy breath and sigh it back into the world.

Molly'll be disappointed tonight. But then again, so am I. You smashed
the almond flour dusted crisps into the new rug we got a few months
back. That'll be a pain to try and fish out.

With a huff, I leaned across your still body to reach for the remote
that you planted on your arm of the chair. I think I saw something about
Gone Girl being shown on film4. It's been a while since I've seen that.
Quite fancy watching it, actually.

I suppose I get to pick the Friday Night Movie from now on.
