---
title: If Then
date: 2019-03-26T08:47:11+01:00
summary: |
  Anxiety about the following day is keeping Katherine Lawrence awake at night. 
  A creeping sensation of fear stops her from being able to rest.
  
  What exactly is making her so anxious?
draft: false
cover:
  image: if-then.jpeg
  alt: Bed sheets
---
12.17am.

If I fell asleep right now, then I'd get four hours and 43 minutes of
sleep. It's not quite the seven and a half hours I needed to feel like I
could deal with the world. Not even the six that I would at least need
to function. And tomorrow- no, *today* - I need to function.

I won't sleep right away, though. If it takes me say...10 minutes to get
really sleepy, if I manage to finally empty out my mind from everything
that's been swirling around in there? If I manage to really, truely
empty out my mind completely, then I'll get 4 hours and 33 minutes of
sleep.

That's not going to happen, though. So I need to be more realistic.

If -- and this is a big if -- if I manage to run my mind wild, let it
roam free until it's absolutely exhausted each and every possible bad
situation that might happen one after the other in rapid fire movement?
Then maybe I'd be able to calm down and get some shut-eye at about 1ish.

But I've been trying to empty out my mind that for the last two hours
now. It's not really worked out, has it?

I stared up at the pebble-dash ceiling above my bed, the street lights
casting an orange-y glow over the off white paint. I tried to root
around my head, to drudge up what the magic formula was last time, on
one of the countless other restless nights. Have a shower? Check. Have a
cup of tea? Check. Get a hot water bottle and place it at the foot of
the bed? Check. Think about all the good \`things that have happened and
try desperately to drown out all the worries and questions and scenes
that keep popping up, like a virus riddled laptop? No.

No.

When I start to remember what had happened, I try to go through the list
of what the advocate, Ms Quinn said.

*Take a pause. Drink some water. Take as much time as you like.
Everyone is there to listen to your story and you're in control.*

*Speak clearly.*

*Look at me when I'm asking the questions and look at the judge when
it's Mr Kilgarthy questioning you.*

*Everything's going to be fine if you just say what you told me.
Everything will be fine if you just tell the -*

I try to chant it in my mind, over and over. If I close my eyes tight
enough, I can even hear the advocate's voice, like it's over a tannoy,
being blasted the sounds of the watery cough. I try to picture a pen in
Ms Quinn's hand, how fluidly it moved over the paper. It didn't even
look like she was writing. It was more like she was making wide, looping
movements across the sheet, right to left, right to left. She didn't
miss a single word, though. She read everything back to me to make sure.

*At 6.15pm You were heading home from the shops. You went to the local
Co-op to pick up some margarine and oat milk. It's about a 10 minute
walk from your flat if you walk through the park. You didn't notice
anything on your way there.*

I was going to have beans on toast for dinner.

*It was on your way back, though, that you received a call from Mr
Daniel Peter. You were close friends with Mr Peters. You had worked with
him for years.*

5 years to be exact. Daniel. We didn't really talk all that much at
first, with our desks being a bit further away from each other. It
wasn't until my lunch hour got changed to match his that we started to
hang out. I ate my egg and cress sandwich quietly whilst he held
audience with the group, making jokes about a client's name. I hated egg
and cress, but it was that or cheese salad.

"I shit you not! Fanny Waters! I mean, her full first name is Stephanie,
but she told me -- she *actually asked me* to call her Fanny! Can't
quite be asking her to confirm that when she's in the stand. Sheriff
Riley would have a heart-attack."

The room was a cacophony of titters and giggles, with each person now
adding their own jokes to the mix. 'Ben Dover'. 'Tess Tickle'.

"Your name's sort of funny, if you think about it."

The room quietened down slightly. You could hear the whirring of minds
as they tried to dissect where I found humour in it.

Danny was the first to break the silence, "What'd'ya mean?"

"Daniel Peter. It's two first names, really."

Silence. It was dragging out, becoming slightly uncomfortable before,
like a gentle breeze wiping away a piercing heat, Danny issued a huff,
"Huh. Never thought about that before\... there's plenty of folk with
two first names, though. Brendan Fraser."

"Jack Nicholas," I added.

"Darren Chris!" Martha added, a grin on her face as she entered the
game. This went on for some time, with names getting add and rules being
created. A surname couldn't have an 's' at the end unless the first name
naturally ended with a 's', so Amy Adams was ruled out.

The rest of lunch went down like this until people started to peel away
and return to their desks. As I started to pack away my apple core back
into my little lunch box, Danny got up, stretched his back and groaned,
"Well, you know what they say, right?"

As the only other person in the room, I glanced up from my box, clicking
the lid shut as I shook my head, "What's that?"

Danny tucked in his white plastic chair back under its table, a small
smile on his face as he headed for the door, "Never trust a man with two
first names."

*Since his promotion, however, you found that he did not have as much
free time.*

Since my first 'office night out' where we shared a taxi back home,
we've always got on well. Sitting in the back of that cab, passed the
comfortable point of being tipsy with the warmth of kebabs on our laps,
Danny asked if I fancied heading up to his to eat. I refused at first,
knowing that I would have to face a half hour walk home in a drunken
state at night.

"Oh, come on! I'll walk you back if you want. I'll walk you all the way
to your door. I've got beers. What's better than-than a kebab and beer?
I'll even-I'll even share my chips. You didn't get any. I know you want
some chips."

That was enough to sway me.

I think that was my favourite part of the evening, actually. Us sitting
on his couch, trying to be quiet so we didn't piss off his roommate
whilst we stuffed kebab and chips down our gullets and watched a movie.
We both tried to work out the best hangover cure for tomorrow, arguing
about whether food was a good idea and if so, was it a cooked breakfast
or was it a McDonald\'s that hit the spot.

I ended up staying over that night, getting tucked up on his couch. It
turns out, a freshly brewed cup of tea and slice of toast was the
perfect hangover cure, closely followed by picking at the leftover
Donner meat and curry sauce laden chips after a quick blast in the
microwave.

After that, we hung out all the time. People tried to spread rumours,
that we were together, that we were more than friends, but\...but that
was never the case. Never. Then rumours were spread that we actually
couldn't stand each other and that our friendship was just for show.
That wasn't right either. Even when we were considering applying for
that promotion, we both encouraged each other. We checked over each
other's application forms. We were chuffed for each other, no matter who
won.

But him getting that promotion made things a little harder. It made him
more distant. He didn't come to sit with us at lunch any more. There
were no more secret chats around the printer, moaning about whatever our
managers had told us to do, or whatever shitty incentive they had to try
and get us to bring in more money. A doughnut? Really? Sure, we weren't
paid a lot, but our meager disposable income could stretch to buying us
a doughnut from Greg\'s. Arseholes. He couldn't join in on these jokes
anymore. Not now that he was one of them.

*He called you, asked if you were busy at the moment and suggested that
you attend his home to have dinner with him. He advised that his
roommate, Mr William, was not at home. You accepted this offer.*

I missed him. Of course I went over.

*You arrived at Mr Peter's home. You estimate your arrival to be around
6.35, as Mr Peters lives in the opposite direction to your apartment,
closer to the Co-op you had walked away from. You placed your butter and
cheese in his fridge. You advise that he had made a pasta bake.*

And it was a good one too. He always was a good cook. He even left off
the cheese for me.

*You ate this with him, with a glass of wine. Both you and Mr Peter
were in good spirits. The TV was on at the time. You consider that
Coronation Street was on in the background, however, neither of you were
watching the show. Instead, you caught up on what was going on in each
other's lives.*

Finding out about what he was doing. He said that his roommate was being
a little more weird than usual, turning up at all hours. He said he
thought James had graduated from smoking the occasional joint to doing
something stronger recently. He seemed worried. He just wanted to live
somewhere quiet. He loved this flat, loved the neighbours and everyone
around the area. That was Danny all over, he was that type of person,
the person who anyone could talk to. You'd walk away feeling like his
friend after only having met him five minutes ago.

*You confirm that you and Mr Peter were strictly friends and that there
was no sexual relationship between you both. You state, however, that
you and Mr Peter did share a kiss at an office Christmas party 3 years
ago.*

God, we were so drunk that night. It was part of some drinking game,
though. Neither of us wanted to back down, so we did it. We kissed. With
tongue.

*Beyond the usual levels of embarrassment, this was not taken any
further.*

It was awful. It was like kissing a brother.

*You confirm that neither you nor Mr Peter had a partner at the time.*

Even if we did, they probably would have laughed their arses off.

*You advise that at around 8.30pm, you heard Mr James William return.
You advise that he did not come to say hello. This wasn't particularly
out of character for Mr William, however.*

I must've been over at Danny's over a hundred times. I don't think I
ever got more than a few grunts out of James. He always looked at me
strangely, if he ever looked at me at all. There was just\...something
about him that never sat right with me.

*And then you and Mr Peter carried on your evening. Mr Peter brought
out cheese and crackers. You remember that this was plated up on a
cheese board, which you had both indulged from. By this point, you both
were standing in the kitchen, chatting. You estimate that you drank a
bottle and a half of red wine between the two of you-*

Standard.

*-by the time you got up to go to the bathroom. You consider that you
were in the bathroom for two minutes before you heard Mr Peter and Mr
William talking. By the time you had washed your hands, you heard that
voices were raised.*

Shouting. James was *screaming* at him.

*When you emerged from the bathroom, you heard Mr Peter say 'I've never
been in your room, James. Why would I go in there?'*

It was a pigsty. Why *would* he go in there?

*Mr William, with his voice still raised, screamed, 'Where's my money?
You thievin' fuckin' bastard -- where's my money?'*

It was so strange to hear Ms Quinn say this so matter-of-factually, her
voice almost dull and drone like.

I couldn't hear Danny talking at this point. I could only hear a watery
gasp for air and the sound of something banging against the cupboards.

*When you entered the kitchen, you saw Mr William with his hands
wrapped around Mr Peter's throat.*

Danny was struggling so hard to breathe.

*Mr William was attempting to bang Mr Peter's head against the kitchen
counter.*

He did. He managed to get Danny down at some point, managed to smack his
head against the counter.

*You were scared and you told Mr William to stop, or you would call the
police.*

My phone was in my left hand, a threat to James. He turned towards me
after glancing over his shoulder. James was a big guy. One hand was
enough to hold it's vice like grip around Danny's purpling face.

"You won't fuckin' dare."

*And then you describe Mr William grunting and falling to the ground.*

It all happened so fast.

*Mr William shouted, "Fuck, fuck, I've been stabbed."*

Everything was just such a blur.

*And it took you a moment to realise that Mr Peter had the cheese knife
in his hand and had stabbed Mr William.*

Yeah. A moment.

*You tried to make sure that Mr Peter was okay first before you called
an ambulance.*

Yes.

*However, by the time the ambulance and the police had arrived, Mr
William had already perspired.*

Yes.

*You consider that Mr Peter acted in self-defense, something that Mr
Peter agrees with.*

Danny told me it was better this way.

I closed my eyes tight, trying to get rid of the sound of James choking
on his own blood.

*Kathy- Ms Lawrence -- you did all you could. You didn't know first
aid. You tried to stem the blood flow as best you could.*

Only after I removed the knife first. I don't think you're supposed to
do that, though.

*I believe Mr Peter did act in self-defence. There was nothing that
could have been done. If Danny didn't\...take the actions he did, then
he would not be alive today.*

That's what Danny said. If I didn't stab James then he'd be dead. He
said that he'd take the wrap. It means he can say it was self-defence.
If we told the truth-

*All you have to do is tell the truth.*

-then I'd end up in prison. So we'll tell a new truth instead.

If I go to sleep now, then I'll have to get up in an hour and a half for
my first day of cross-examination.

I just hope they never find out that I'm lactose-intolerant.
