---
title: Real Love
date: 2021-02-14T12:00:00+01:00
draft: false
---
I've never been one for soppy romance. I balk at all the Nicholas Sparks
books. I can't keep quiet when watching a Rom-Com. They\'re filled with
clich√© meet-cutes, predictable misunderstanding and declarations of
love.

That's not to say that I don't like love. I *love* love. I love love
when it\'s stripped down to the bare essentials, when it comes to the
quiet displays of care and attention. Now-a-days it's all about being
whisked away on surprise, jet-setting adventures by your billionaire
boyfriend on your first date or waking up to a room filled with
single-stem roses. Everyone forgets the warmth of coffee being placed in
your hands wordlessly first thing in the morning because he knows you're
going to be grumpy and you need at least one sip to become human.
There's no Instagram post about the moments when you press the back of
your hand against your lover's forehead and neck and press your ear to
their chest in worry over that cough they have. Although they aren't
flashy, those simple practicalities of life that, when practised
together out of choice, day-in and day-out, are the strongest
measurements of love known to man.

Sometimes, however, the cliches are true. Time slows down when we're
apart. The first week he was gone, I watched a clock intensely and I
could swear his absence betrayed the laws of physics. Seconds were
longer, minutes were agony, hours were torture. My heart was beating
only for him and it craved his return like nothing else.

His return was like air being breathed back into my lifeless body. My
mind returned, back to my quiet exuberance of love, felt wholly in each
of his smiles, with each of his hugs and whispered hellos.

His lips were a salvation, like a long wished for prayer that finally
was answered. It was the only religion I ascribed to and it would be the
only faith I could ever want. I would worship at this altar for the rest
of my life if he would let me.

In his arms, with his lips against mine, I was home.
